Hey guys in today's video I want to start a new experience an experience that I believe would be useful
both for students already enrolled in my wordpress theme development courses as well as for those who
don't know the courses yet.
I'm gonna start answering the most interesting questions my students sent me.
This will help complement what students already learn in the courses and to also be very useful for
those who don't know my material yet I won't be answering all the questions on video.
Only the most interesting or the most frequent ones.
I think this will help a lot of people both inside and outside my courses.
So let's go.
I'll start by answering a question that I get a lot.
One of the questions comes from the Udemy forum which is one of the platforms on which I teach.
This one for example is from student Jamil.
Sorry for the pronunciation.
He asked me Does home page that page be replaced page home that BHP in the newer version of WordPress.
Aren't they the same thing.
And there are all the similar questions in the forum.
Well this is a very common question especially for those who are starting to learn how to create a theme
in WordPress.
People always struggle to understand how lot these template files work why they exist etc. have a file
called home that page B and other one called Front Page doc page pay have the page that page be indexed
on page B and you also have other possibilities and this makes developers very confused especially those
who are most used to creating page say simpler only using a gem LCROSS and pure PSP.
I myself had a hard time trying to understand this at first.
I only managed to understand WordPress the third time I sat down to learn it but I'll show you that
the logic is easy.
Well deep down all these questions are about the same subject.
How do you determine the of a home page in WordPress.
Here's where things get tricky.
There are many ways to do there and that's what I find most interesting about WordPress.
There are a lot of possibilities for almost everything to help understand this subject.
I've separated here.
The theme I featured beauty in my theme development course this is the home page of the theme already
finished here I have the header a slide show.
These sections a list of posts from the blog a map and on the themes footer
and here I have the admin of my wordpress installation so how do I define what will appear in my wordpress
home page.
Well there are several ways you can choose any of them but basically what controls it is a wordpress
setup that is here under Settings Reading here under your home page displays WordPress allows you to
configure the home page in two ways.
First display your latest posts or display a static page and here in the second option you have the
possibility to choose between two types of static pages one that will serve as the basis for the home
page of the site and another one for The Post's page.
The site's blog by the way for those who don't know what a static page is let's say in a very brief
way that those are the pages you create using the pages menu.
Add new so everything here is a static page.
Right so here we can choose one of the pages to be used as the home page and another for The Post's
page.
Okay.
In my case on my sites are always create a blank page called home and they open up this page for you
to see it.
So there you see it.
It's a blank page.
Okay all right.
Going back here and here for the Post page I choose a page called blog which is also blank.
Okay with that in mind let's play a little with this.
Options here.
What happens when I say I want the home page to show my latest posts.
Let's see it.
So refresh in the home page.
Well now we have a very different look.
Basically the home page became a list of posts.
Why does that happen.
And how those WordPress decide what will appear on the home page to help us understand this.
I'm gonna install a very useful plugin called show current template.
What is plugin does is it points out on the front end which template files are being used to create
the look of some wordpress theme page.
So let's do that
now refresh on the home page.
The plugin indicates here that the index of P2P file is the maintain free file that is being used to
design this page.
But how does WordPress know it has to load these indexed P2P.
And another question at the beginning of this video I said that there are all the files that cause confusion
in people's heads.
The home page that will be the front page that BGP page that BHP and so on.
What are these are the files for.
And why did WordPress choose index top BJP over these other files.
Well this has to do with a little thing called template hierarchy.
This is nothing more than the internal order that WordPress tablets use to load any file in any moment
of execution of any page.
When I tell WordPress that the whole page shows the latest posts the loading order is as follows.
First among the theme files WordPress looks for a file called front hyphen page that page me if it doesn't
exist it looks for one called home that BHP finally if none of these exist.
Less option is to call a file named index not BHP.
Look how interesting in a common light shemale page the index is the main file but in WordPress we say
that it's a fallback file is not the main option say but it's an important file.
That's why it's wrong to create a wordpress thing without ending the Xstrata BHP file.
WordPress will always need this file at some point.
Well let's say this hierarchy working in practice as you've noticed the file being loaded here is indexed
at BJP.
It means that WordPress couldn't find any of the other files to load.
That's because they don't exist in my field.
If I opened the thing files here in my editor you realise that I don't have a file called Front hyphen
page that BHP which will be the first one on the list in the hierarchy and neither home that BHP which
is the second one on the list but I do have these indexed page me.
So let's do the following.
Let's create a file called home that BHP here.
So we're going to start from the opposite order of the hierarchy and I'll be writing anything in here.
Now we load the page.
Have a look.
Now the one controlling the page is home.
That's BHP however if there is a file called Front hyphen page that BHP as it is the highest in the
hierarchy it will control the page instead.
So I see it
look at that.
The interesting thing is that now for example I can create the whole structure of the file that will
control the page look.
For example let me paste the contents of the index not BHP in here
to get it the front page that BHP is now in charge.
And what defines everything that will appear on the page is the file content in this case we get some
function calls a loop a bit of HMO OK with that in mind let's go back to the reading settings and I'll
choose the static pages I want to be displayed on the home page and also delete the files I have created
earn your
well know what defines the look of the page is a file from my theme called page hyphen home that page
B what is the order followed by WordPress here here it depends on whether or not you've selected an
item because uh you can select only one of them if you want.
Right.
It just can't do it like this.
If you live them on selected WordPress automatically returns to the previous default option above.
So if you save it now see it.
Now this one here is selected.
If you select a static page to use as your home page the order to follow is this first WordPress looks
for the front page that BHP file if it doesn't exist.
It looks for a file that starts with Page hyphen followed by this look of the chosen static page.
Later I'll explain this more clearly if it doesn't exist.
It looks for a file called page doc page B.
And lastly if none is found it leaves the index doc page me.
Well with the practical example used before you must have already understood how this order works.
So I won't be creating the files again.
I could have chosen any of these options in my case what I'd like to do is choose the second option
which is to create a file called page hyphen followed by this log of the static page I choose here.
It works like this.
Let's suppose I went to the home page should be this this home page here.
So I create a file called page hyphen home that page B.
That's because if I look at the page table
the base load is home.
For example if I had chosen the contact page the file would have to be called page hyphen contact that
BHP write if I check the page home that BHP file.
This is where a call.
Everything I get on the home page the header the slide show the service section the loops that create
a post list and everything else I have on the page.
Well then you could ask me but what if I want to add content to the home page which now is just a blank
page just to display this content on the home page.
I don't want to depend on writing code.
I want to create content visually.
Well my answer is that.
Then you don't have to do everything I've done here.
Just a very simple loop will do.
For example let me simplify this file's content.
I'm gonna live only a very basic loop here.
Now I can call the content that is inside the editor and to show up on the home page
got it.
That's how for example you're going to work with a page builder plugin.
Let's suppose you want to install a Elementary to design a home page.
You just need something like that code.
All right.
I've already tested and it works
now to wrap up post page.
The loading order here is we get first the home page file if it doesn't exist the index that BHP file
is loaded.
In my case my index and BHP file is always reserved to show the blog page
index that BHP is what WordPress also calls the default template.
You can see this.
If I open one of the pages for editing so let's go
here on the page attributes template this default template here means index the BJP.
Did you know is now you know it you can create all the templates if you want including the templates
to be controlling the home page if you want.
If you're watching this video inside my course you can take a look at one of the lectures at the beginning
of section number three in we should talk about how to use paste templates.
So that's it.
And that's all for today I hope you enjoy the explanation.
See you next time.